Objective-C interop design (#197)
dotnet/designs: accepted/2021/objectivec-interop.md

# Objective-C interoperability

This design document describes a singular .NET Platform support scenario for an Objective-C runtime. This design is heavily influenced by existing [Xamarin-macios][xamarin_repo] support which is built on top of Mono's [Embedding API](https://www.mono-project.com/docs/advanced/embedding/).

## Scenarios and User Experience

Consume Objective-C APIs from a .NET environment.

Provide .NET APIs for consumption from an Objective-C environment.

The Objective-C interop experience is defined by Xamarin. How users can extend this for their purposes is described in the [Advanced Concepts and Internals](https://docs.microsoft.com/xamarin/ios/internals/) section.

## Stakeholders and Reviewers

Existing Xamarin customers.

## Design

### Objective-C concepts

There are concepts in Objective-C that require attention for interoperability.

**Message dispatch** <a name="message_disp"></a>

Method dispatch in Objective-C is typically done through message passing. A suite of functions make up the message passing system.

- [`objc_msgSend`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/objectivec/1456712-objc_msgsend) &ndash; Canonical message passing.

> - [`objc_msgsend_fpret`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/objectivec/1456697-objc_msgsend_fpret) &ndash; Message returns a floating point value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`objc_msgSend_fpret`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/objectivec/1456697-objc_msgsend_fpret) &ndash; Message returns a floating point value.
```

Author: Thanks.

# Objective-C interoperability

**Owner** [Aaron Robinson](https://github.com/AaronRobinsonMSFT)

This design document describes a singular .NET Platform support scenario for an Objective-C runtime. This design is heavily influenced by existing [Xamarin-macios][xamarin_repo] support which is built on top of Mono's [Embedding API](https://www.mono-project.com/docs/advanced/embedding/).

## Scenarios and User Experience

Consume Objective-C APIs from a .NET environment.

Provide .NET APIs for consumption from an Objective-C environment.

The Objective-C interop experience is defined by Xamarin. How users can extend this for their purposes is described in the [Advanced Concepts and Internals](https://docs.microsoft.com/xamarin/ios/internals/) section.

## Stakeholders and Reviewers

> Existing Xamarin customers.

Reviewer 2: This should be .NET runtime interop and Xamarin Objective-C interop teams.

```objective-c
int b = [obj doubleNumber: a];
```

Will be converted by the compiler to the C style invocation:

```C
// The SEL, "doubleNumberSel", is computed at compile time.
// A SEL can also be constructed at run time.
int b = ((int(*)(id,SEL,int))&objc_msgSend)(obj, doubleNumberSel, a);
```

> The Objective-C runtime adheres to the [`cdecl`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86_calling_conventions#cdecl) calling convention for all function calls. Note that method signatures with variadic arguments are supported in Objective-C.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Objective-C runtime adheres to the standard platform C calling convention for all function calls. Note that method signatures with variadic arguments are supported in Objective-C.
```
cdecl name is 32-bit x86 specific.
